.\" neard(8) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation
.\"
.TH NEARD "8" "7 March 2013"
.SH NAME
neard \- Near Field Communication daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neard [\-\-version] | [\-\-help]
.PP
.B neard [\-\-debug=<file1>:<file2>:...] [\-\-plugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,...] [\-\-noplugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,...] [\-\-nodaemon]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIneard\fP is an NFC (Near Field Communication) daemon for managing
NFC operations on devices running the Linux operating system. It relies
on the Linux kernel NFC socket and generic netlink families, and is a
fully modular system that can be extended through plug-ins.

It supports all 4 NFC tag types reading and writing, along with NFC LLCP
(peer to peer mode) in both target and initiator modes. The Simple NDEF
Exchange Protocol (SNEP), NDEF Push Protocol (NPP) and handover (Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth) protocols are implemented as separate plugins on top of LLCP sockets.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print the neard software version and exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print neard's available options and exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-debug=<file1>:<file2>:..."
Sets how much information neard sends to the log destination (usually
syslog's "daemon" facility).  If the file options are omitted, then debugging
information from all the source files are printed. If file options are
present, then only debug prints from that source file are printed.
Example: --debug=src/service.c:plugins/wifi.c
.TP
.I "\-\-plugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,..."
Load these plugins only. The option can be a pattern containing
"*" and "?" characters.
.TP
.I "\-\-noplugin=<plugin1>,<plugin2>,..."
Never load these plugins. The option can be a pattern containing
"*" and "?" characters.
.TP
.I "\-\-nodaemon"
Do not daemonize. This is useful for debugging, and directs log output to
the controlling terminal in addition to syslog.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR neard.conf (5).
