.\" nfctool(1) manual page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation
.\"
.TH NFCTOOL 1 "February 2013"

.SH NAME
.B nfctool
\- a NFC toolbox

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfctool [OPTIONS...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBnfctool\fR application performs various operations on NFC devices, such
as:
.IP \[bu] 2
list connected devices
.IP \[bu]
put device in polling mode
.IP \[bu]
get and set parameters for the local LLC
.IP \[bu]
send service name lookup request to the remote LLC.
.IP \[bu]
dump LLCP link traffic

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Print nfctool's available options and exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 4
Print nfctool's version and exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
.RS 4
List attached NFC devices. It also prints information such as remote tags or
devices, supported protocols, RF mode, and LLC link parameters.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-device\fR=\fINFCDEV\fR
.RS 4
Specify a nfc device (i.e. nfc0). This is mandatory for all operations except \fB\-l\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-poll\fR[=\fIMODE\fR]
.RS 4
Start poll on the device specified with \fB\-d\fR. \fIMODE\fR must be one of
\fBInitiator\fR, \fBTarget\fR, or \fBBoth\fR and it defaults to \fBInitiator\fR
when unspecified. Passing \fIMODE\fR as \fBi\fR, \fBt\fR, or \fBb\fR for
respectively \fBInitiator\fR, \fBTarget\fR, or \fBBoth\fR is also accepted.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-set\-param\fR=\fIPARAM=VAL\fR[,\fIPARAM=VAL\fR[,...]]
.RS 4
Set LLC link parameters. \fIPARAM\fR must be at least one of:
.PP
\fBlto\fR=0..255 \- Link TimeOut
.RS 4
Specify the maximum time interval between the last received LLC PDU from the
remote to the local LLC and the first subsequent LLC PDU transmission from the
local to the remote LLC. The value is expressed in multiples of 10 milliseconds
and is encoded as a 8-bit unsigned integer.
.PP
The LTO parameter must be set before the LLC Link is established.
.RE

.PP
\fBrw\fR=0..15 \- Receive Window size
.RS 4
Specify the maximum number of I PDUs the local LLC will accept before
acknowledging them. A RW size of zero indicates that the local LLC will not
accept I PDUs on that data link connection. A RW size of one indicates that the
local LLC will acknowledge every I PDU before accepting additional I PDUs. It is
encoded as a 4-bit unsigned integer.
.PP
The RW parameter can be set after the LLC Link is established. The new value
will apply for subsequent connections.
.RE
.PP
\fBmiux\fR=0..2047 \- Maximum Information Unit Extension
.RS 4
Specify the number of octets by which a LLC PDU information field
may exceed the default maximum size of 128 octets. In other words,
MIU = MIUX + 128. It is encoded as an 11-bit unsigned integer.
.PP
The MIUX parameter can be set after the LLC Link is established. The new value
will apply for subsequent connections.
.RE
.RE

.PP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-snl\fR=\fIURN\fR
.RS 4
Send a Service Name Lookup request for \fIURN\fR (i.e. urn:nfc:sn:snep) to the
remote LLC. Obviously, the LLC link must be up before the request is sent.
.PP
The remote should reply by returning the service access point (SAP) number or
zero if it doesn't support the requested service.
.PP
\fBNote\fR: If used with -p, nfctool will wait for the LLC link to be up before
sending the SNL request.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-sniff\fR
.RS 4
Start LLCP sniffing on the device specified with \fB-d\fR option.

.PP
\fBSNIFFER SPECIFIC OPTIONS\fR
.RS 4
The folowing options only apply with \fR-n\fB.

.PP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-snapshot\-len\fR=\fISNAPLEN\fR
.RS 4
Capture \fISNAPLEN\fR bytes from each packet. Default snapshot length is 1024
bytes.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-dump\-symm\fR
.RS 4
Dump SYMM packets to stdout. this will generate a \fBLOT\fR of output.
.PP
\fBNote\fR: The \fB-y\fR option concerns console output only. SYMM packets are
always dumped to the pcap file when specified by \fB-f\fR (See below).
.RE

.PP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-show\-timestamp\fR[=\fIMODE\fR]
.RS 4
Show packet timestamps. Setting \fIMODE\fR as \fBdelta\fR means the time since
the first captured frame. \fBabsolute\fR means elapsed time since the Epoch,
1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC). \fIMODE\fR defaults to \fBdelta\fR when
unspecified.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-pcap\-file\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
.RS 4
Specify a filename to save dumped traffic in pcap format. The generated file can
be opened with Wireshark (http://www.wireshark.org/) using the wireshark-nfc
plug-in available at http://code.google.com/p/wireshark-nfc/
.RE

.RE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
neard (8)
.PP
neard.conf (5)
.PP
Linux NFC project page at https://01.org/linux-nfc/
